21:28

S07E07 The Rings of Akhaten

音乐超好听超震撼！上一部通过音乐把我震撼的是2010圣诞特辑的《圣诞颂歌》，再上一次是S03E03 Gridlock的《与主同行》。

我不懂音乐，不懂音高音律，仍然能被这面对燃烧星球的催眠曲，被清亮童声起调的合唱震撼和感动。the long song, the endless song，音乐是跨越物种的语言和情绪本身。

还有台词，太喜欢这集的台词了（直接看的生肉版这里就也不做翻译了，事实上，直接看原文也确实更加贴近一些）

关于灵魂
The soul and the story are the same thing. The soul's made of stories, not atoms. Everything that ever happened to us, people we loved, people we lost, people we found again, against all the odds.
灵魂是故事，是记忆，是曾经发生过的一切，是爱过的、失去的、重新找回的人。

关于生命和自我牺牲
She's sacrificing herself. She should know what that means. 
All the elements in your body were forged many, many millions of years ago in the heart of a faraway star that exploded and died. That explosion scattered those elements across the desolations of deep space. After so, so many millions of years, these elements came together to form new stars and new planets and on and on it went. The elements came together and burst apart, forming shoes and ships and sealing-wax and cabbages and kings. Until, eventually, they came together to make you. You are unique in the universe. There is only one you. And there will never be another. 
其实以前也听过这样的说法，但仍然每次听到仍然会被感动到。我们身体里的元素，在几百万年里来自所有的星星，曾经组成过无数的星系无数的其他东西，而最终他们汇聚成了我，独一无二、宇宙中再也不可能出现完全相同存在的我。我的生命，曾经的曾经也被我自己看作无用的浪费空气的存在的我，在博士的描述下也是那么独特，那么珍贵，那么值得好好爱惜，值得好好活下去。

在面对行星级巨大的敌人，小女孩，The Queen of Years带领所有人在唱催眠曲，博士说：“Ok then, I'll tell you a story.”催眠曲和窗前故事，我想这集本可以有一个更美更儿童的名字的。这里的歌声真的能直接把我唱得泪盈满眶，歌声里的力量，温暖，一切伟大而美好的东西，干净纯粹的灵魂，我都感受到了。还有对世界的热爱，对人生的希望，无限的可能性，满溢出来的爱和勇敢，智慧和忠诚，都在歌声里。

博士对行星级巨大的敌人说：
Can you hear them? All these people who lived in terror of you and your judgement, all these people whose ancestors devoted themselves, sacrificed themselves to you. Can you hear them singing?

Oh, you like to think you're a God. But you're not a God. You are just a parasite, eaten out with jealousy and envy and longing for the lives of others. You feed on them, on the memory of love and loss, and birth and death, and joy and sorrow...

So...come on then, take mine. Take my memories. But I hope you've got a big appetite because I've lived a long life, and I've seen a few things. I walked away from the Last Great Time War. I marked the passing of the Time Lords. I saw the birth of the universe and I watched as time ran out, moment by moment, until nothing remained -- no time, no space, just me! I walked in universes, where the laws of phgsics were devised by the mind of a madman! And I've watched universes freeze and creations burn. I have seen things you wouldn't believe, I have lost things you will never understand. And I know things, secrets that must never be told, knowledge that must never be spoken, knowledge that will make larasite God blaze!
时间领主的泪，凝聚了宇宙的终结和开始，所有的记忆，爱，和失去。

不止这些，还要加上Clara的煽情，她寄托在叶片上关于母亲的记忆和情感：
The most important leaf in human history. It's full of stories, full of history. And full of a future that never got lived, days that should've been, that never were, passed on to me. This leaf isn't just the past, it's a whole future that never happened. There are millions and millions of unlived days for every day we live, an infinity, all the days that never came. And thsese were all my mum's.

There's quite a difference, between what was and what should've been. There's an awful lot of one, vut there's an infinity of the other.
曾经的记忆是有限的，生命是有限的，而未曾拥有过的将来是无限的。太喜欢这样的转变视角了。

——————
（循环听了6小时后的更新：）
这已经超出了好听或者震撼。感觉好像我自己的身体和灵魂已经完全变成了一架竖琴，音乐在上面拨动着对应不同情绪的弦。最初我听到的是安静的希望，是美好和开始。但反复的反复之后，我开始听出悲伤，浓烈到散不开的悲伤，浓烈到我甚至不敢相信最初我为什么会没有注意到它。我听到了离别和死亡，听到了睡去和不再醒来，听到了一次又一次心碎的声音，听到自己的泪水流下，没有停止。直到自己甚至没有足够力气去停下这音乐。

The Long Song，这音乐是有生命的吧，以我的情绪和能量为食，而现在我已经完全被它掌控了。下一次再听到的时候，大概会是另一个疼痛到极致的悲伤吧，另一个可以预见的已经在街角的告别。
