01:01


An alien landed on the Earth.
Plants repel violently, stones sneer loudly.
The world of human is in a mess.
The right of existence is doubted.
…
The Chain Reaction is taking effect, and it’s difficult to decide which of these events is more catastrophic.
Wait, wait, wait, let’s pause a little bit here and turn the clock to ten hours ago to understand what’s happening.

Everything big starts with something small, which at beginning might even be too unimportant to be noticed. In this circumstance, it starts with a meteor shower. Hundreds of thousands of comets slid through the dark sky, leaving bright tails behind them, and died as a cold black meteorite falling onto the earth. However, for some reason, one of them was not killed by the burning and falling. It just passed out, and landed on a street in Los Angeles.
It looks just like a common unnoticeable black stone, feels solid and cold just like a stone if you touch it, sounds dreary just like a stone if you knock it. In a word, you can’t possibly tell it from another normal, ordinary, lifeless, black stone.
Except it has self-consciousness.
So maybe we should call it an alien now, since it is something from the outer space and has self-consciousness.

At first, nobody noticed anything unusual. The stone – the alien – woke up from the coma two hours after its landing. Stones don’t have senses, so this stone alien, too, can’t see, or hear, or touch. But it has self-consciousness, and is able to use its mind to communicate and pass information. Right now, there were too much thoughts and consciousness flowing around it, which is so noisy that this is the exact source why it woke up from the coma.

“Hey, you.” the stone alien called out to a passing thought.
The owner of this thought, a man, just passed by the stone, and heard an unfamiliar voice popping out of nowhere inside his head. He looked around, and saw nobody seem to hear and speak in this strange voice. He shook the head, thinking it might be a hallucination due a lack of rest recently. He walked away, and his walking pas was not even slowed down a bit by this small interlude.
A female adult passed by, with a similar reaction to this new voice inside her mind. And later a male elder. And then a cat. The cat also heard the strange stony voice inside its head when it passed by the stone, speaking in its understandable language. The cat stopped curiously and found the stone, licked the surface, played with it in its paws, and then quickly distracted by something else interesting, without listening carefully to what the stone wants to say next.

“Everything! Attention!” after being neglected for about two hours, the stone alien growled impatiently in the head of whoever is within a distance of fifty feet to it. “I’m here with a mission.”
People around it stopped and began murmuring. Their voices were quiet but the thoughts spoke so loudly that the stone alien could hear everything. Most people were trying to figure out the source of the voice in their heads, but they were asking the wrong question.
“Did you hear that?” a husband asked his wife, “Who’s speaking? And doesn’t he mean ‘everyone’ instead of ‘everything’? Isn’t that strange?” The wife nodded in confusion.

But human being is not the only species that can hear the stone alien’s message, everything with self-consciousness can. The problem is, who and what has self-consciousness.

“My mission is, ” said the stone alien, “to kill those without self-consciousness. So now, prove to me that you have self-consciousness, or you will die. How do you know your behavior is not controlled or pre-programmed? Show me, persuade me, or you die.” 
Panic rose among the human crowd, so does some sarcastic sneers.

“Who do you think you are?” said someone arrogantly, “How can you possibly kill anyone if you don’t even dare to reveal yourself?”
His death came quickly as required, but in other people’s eyes, the process seemed like a strange slow-motion film. Just like some old dumb show, or exaggerating comedy show, his face showed an expression of confusion, and then shock, then anger, as if he was arguing with someone or something inside his brain. He didn’t say anything out loud, so nobody else knew what was actually taking place. In the end, he screamed “No, no, no, no, no.” With hands protecting the head as if it’s going to blow up, he kneeled and fell down onto the ground. The scream lasted for another several minutes and then stopped promptly. He had no breath or heartbeat by then.
“Jesus Christ.” The surrounding crowd gasped in terrify, but no one could explain or possibly guess why. And no one knows how to protect themselves from the mysterious killer, or to answer to the challenge: “Prove that you have self-consciousness.”
Panic was extending tremendously fast.

Somebody twittered this “collective illusion”, along with the death. The tag “# selfConsciousnessOrDeath” rose incredibly fast, and the internet spread the surprising alien new to the whole world within the next two hours. News reporters, scientists, psychologists, philosophers, sociologists, sci-fi fans, and many more policemen, all come to the scene. And of course, the stone alien still lay in the place where it fell six hours ago.

“This is insane.” A famous scientist couldn’t stop himself from drawing to this conclusion, after examining the elements of the stone carefully, analyzing everything that was analyzable, but found nothing physically special.
“This is insane.” A philosopher talked with the stone alien using mind communication, and left before he was killed, but someone reported he was driven mad some time later.
“This is insane.” Everyone said so. A stone, as an alien, has the mission to distinguish things with and without self-consciousness and kill the latter? What’s impossible now? People might not be surprised when the sun turns to green or the earth decides not to obey the law of gravity. 
But the most hilarious and sarcastic fact is that, they still have to follow the game rule of the stone alien.

A rose died quietly in a nearby garden for no good reason, but its neighboring flowers were still blooming. Mice climbed out of sewer pipes, and squeaked around the stone alien. It seems that after some communication or negotiation, the stone alien and the mice reached to some agreements, so all the mice ran away from the stone alien and climbed back their home in the sewer pipes.

“Humans are so noisy, ” complained the stone alien in a lazy voice in everyone’s brain, “a lot more noisy than mice, definitely more annoying than grasses and flowers. Stones are my favorite. Talking with their consciousness are most pleasant.” Tsk, tsk, the following stranger voice sounded like a human make clicks of the tongue in disgust.

People discussed either loudly with each other, or loudly in their own mind.
“The world is definitely mad. I mean the whole universe.”
“How can mice and roses prove their self-consciousness yet we can’t?”
“Wait, did it just say, plants, animals, and even non-living things like stones have self-consciousness?”
Someone just realized something. And if it is a riddle, the answer had been found.

“Can you tell us how did other species prove it?” A brave man thought loudly and directly to the stone alien.
“No, I can’t.”
Well, just as expected.
“Can you share my consciousness to them and help us talk?”
“Yes, I can, but I won’t. And by the way, I’m afraid they don’t have interest to your little arrogant talks. Plants are trying to repel the roots to enable movements, animals mostly have their independent idea, and stones want to be left alone, so if you disturbed, they are good at cursing and sneering.”
“Can you prove that you have self-consciousness?” 
“Yes.”
“How?”
“Of course I won’t tell you, isn’t it?”
“How can you tell that I don’t have self-consciousness? Otherwise your proposition is proved already.”
“Oh, come on. Word game is boring.”
“Answer me.”
“Because it is true, obviously. ”
The brave man paused, trying to think of a rational reasoning to debate this argument.
“How can you know you are not programmed to say whatever you are going say, to think whatever you are thinking right now, even including the part you thought you are possibly programmed? ” the stone alien asked aggressively.
“Just like robots, but I know even some robots have self-consciousness. Poor human, never find out they’re never making choices or living the life on their own. Do you mind me taking your life now?” the stone alien faked some compassion in its tone of thoughts.
“No——I don’t want to die.” The brave man thought desperately.
“Well, that one sounds more close to self-consciousness now, but still, not strong enough. You can always be programmed to be fear of death.”
“So——sorry, goodbye.”
The brave man, just like the first arrogant man, fell down to the ground lifelessly.

Silence existed in the stone alien’s mind for a moment. And then, …
“You know, you made a big mistake.” A voice came into the mid of the stone alien, from the place where the brave man’s corpse lied.
“What?” It asked in a harsh voice in mind.
“You split the life with mind.” Abundant thoughts were still pouring out from the gradually colder and stiffer body.
“Thanks to the hint of stone. It gave me the inspiration towards the answer. You take the life away from the livings that can’t prove their self-consciousness, but you can’t take the consciousness away from them, and you can’t kill them twice. So according to you, the thoughts, my thoughts and consciousness, would remain after I was killed. Therefore, without programming on my living body, my self-consciousness still exist, which is the same self-consciousness either pre-death or post-death. QED.”
“But pity, why does no one think of the importance of death when trying to solve the riddle and prove it? I was so close to the answer at the last minute of my life, yet I still wouldn’t solve it until I died.”
“And if my guess is correct, you would expect no one to figure it out, and so you would gradually kill every single human being on the planet. That’s your real vicious mission. But you should stop now, I solved it, I proved it, and they are like me, so it is also proved for them.”
“Bingo. ” The stone alien listened quietly without interruption for quite long time now.
“It is the death that proves your self-consciousness, self-awareness, or whatever terminology you call. The death makes you realize what you choose to do or to be, who you are, how you will spend the life. It is the death that gives the life meaning.”

After those last words of thoughts, the stone alien became completely quiet, just like an ordinary stone. And nobody heard the strange stony voice in their head again ever. Well, actually may not be “ever”, maybe still once or twice for some people, but overall, nobody die of the question of self-consciousness ever.


end


Potential ending 2:
“Bingo. ” The stone alien listened quietly without interruption for quite long time now.
“It is the death that proves your self-consciousness, self-awareness, or whatever terminology you call. The death makes you realize what you choose to do or to be, who you are, how you will spend the life. It is the death that gives the life meaning.”
“So the next question is, how can you prove you are living? Otherwise you will die. Breathing versus fake breathing, heart beating versus fake heart beating, what is the proof of living? And attention, self-consciousness doesn’t count in the proof now. And yes, I will kill you twice if I have to.”

A boy picked the stone up and throwed it to the bottom of the Mariana Trench. And on the second thought, he felt it would be a better idea to throw it onto a rocket which would through it to the center of the sun.
Hopefully, the sun is not self-conscious or living.


end
